also called NoSQL databases. There are many of them, and each has it's own desing priciples. if you want to know more about the types of NoSQL databases check [[database#types of databases|Types of databases]].

But in summary the main types are 
- [[database#key-value|key-value databases]]
- [[database#wide column|wide column databases]]
- [[database#document oriented (NoSQL)|document oriented databases]]
- [[database#search engine|search engine databases]]
- [[database#Graph|Graph databases]]
- [[database#vector|Vector databases]]
These DBs share some features (not all databases, take this note with a bit of **skepticism** and always remember the [[CAP theorem]]) 
# Core Features

- Non-relational databases do **not** require a strict **schema**. This allows for the storage of unstructured or semi-structured data and the ability to **change data structure** without affecting existing data.
- Designed for **horizontal scalability**, they can handle large volumes of data and high user loads by distributing data across multiple servers.
- Often optimized for specific data models and access patterns, leading to **faster responses** for certain types of **queries**.

# Use Cases

- Ideal for handling **large-scale**, unstructured, or semi-structured data.
- Capable of providing **real-time** insights due to their efficient data retrieval mechanisms.
- Their schema flexibility is beneficial for managing **diverse** **content** types.
- Suitable for **storing** and processing the diverse and **voluminous data** generated by for example [[IoT]] devices.
 
# Advantages

- Enables the **storage** and **querying** of data in a way that is **intuitive** and aligned with the application's data structures.
- **Simplifies** the **development** process, especially for applications with evolving data models.
- **Scalability** out of the box
# Considerations

- Often do **not** enforce [[relational database#ACID|ACID]] properties strictly, so design with eventual consistency in mind.
- You have to understand their querying mechanism to use them effectively, if not you don't gain anything 
- Plan for data **distribution** and **sharding** strategies to ensure balanced load and efficient querying.
